# Week 2 Notes

## Last Week's Update

### 1. Setup Virtual Machines
#### 1.1. We were able to successfully create VMs in the Google Cloud Platform
We created Virtual Machine instances in the Google Cloud Platform. We were also able to connect our personal machines to the virtual machines via SSH.

#### 1.2. We also tried out to create the Virtual container in the Dockers - 
As an alternate to setup the virtual environment to create Peer-to-Peer network, we also set up containers in the Docker Desktop. However, we later figured out the Google cloud Virtual Machines and considered it as a better option.

#### 1.3. We automated the VM creation process on Google cloud Platform 
We wrote a shell script that will automatically create VMs on Google Cloud and will save the IP of these VMs in a VM specific file.

### 2. Communication between servers
#### 2.1. Create communication between the different servers (TCP) (Ayushi and Mridula)
After the connection to the VMs, the next step was to be able to communicate within the machines. We started with creating the communication within our personal machines on a single personal network, then we were able to create the communication between the different virtual machines using sockets. As a starting point, we passed out simple string messages and each other’s IP addresses.

#### 2.2. Successfully passed files between the different virtual servers(Anshi and Bhargav)
As a continuation of the last week attempt, we were able to solve the error of our last week’s code and pass the simple files to different VMs through the network. We started with sharing these files from a single client to the server across different terminals. Then, we used the previous settings on SSH to transfer the files within the different virtual server instances. 


## This Week’s Plans
1. We now plan to make this communication two way instead of traditional client and server communication 
2. We also plan to automate the process of server communication - may be handled via the parameter file instead of it being manual. 
3. Then, we plan to incorporate more advanced features like encryption or fairness policy.

[Link to Trello](https://trello.com/b/lABFR50h/os-project)
